{"key":"processedPost-6639059","value":{"id":6639059,"first":6638781,"last":7123978,"when":1173147251,"utime":"03/06/07 04:14 AM","content":"Water doesn't drip out the bottom, because there should be no standing water in the perlite anyway.<br />We all (should)know that the key to preventing contaminants in fruiting chambers is fresh air exchange(FAE).  Therefore, the more air exchange you can provide without loosing humidity is the best situation.  However, fanning is a pain in the ass, and many of us must leave for 8 or more hours per day to earn a living, leaving the tubs to sit unattended.  This results in molds such as cobweb and/or trichoderma from the stale air.  Having the holes alleviates the problem.<br />The holes in the bottom increase humidity.  How? It's a development from something I learned working on the Alaska Pipeline project in the 1970's, helping to engineer the supports that are actually self contained refrigeration units that keep the tundra frozen even in summer so they don't shift, thus preventing the pipeline from rupturing.  The supports require no electricity to operate.<br />The methodology is this:  Air currents travel from high pressure to low.  Heat expands the air, thus causing low pressure. Cold compresses the air, thus causing high pressure.  The damp perlite is cold, so the air surrounding the perlite is our 'high' pressure.  The substrates within a terrarium produce heat, as does the lights shining through the sides or top, thus the air in upper terrarium becomes 'low' pressure.  This causes air to want to flow through the perlite and into the terrarium, but only if there is an entry point at the bottom for the air to be drawn in.  The air, by natural convection passes through the perlite, absorbing moisture as it does.  It then enters the terrarium, and is expelled through the holes above.  This natural circulation provides FAE without fanning, while keeping the humidity higher than it would otherwise be.<br />I developed this over the last year, but am just now releasing it after a full year of testing, so don't look for anyone else besides myself to have used this system yet.  It works.  Oyster mushrooms still should be fanned a time or two per day, but every other species has done very well with this system with no fanning, and humidity maintains between 95% and 98% provided four to five inches of damp perlite are used.  Smaller depths may work with smaller terrariums, but with the 106 liter terrarium I've posted pictures of, four to five inches is best.<br />RR","title":"Re: Drill holes in 6 sides of terrarium?"}}