{"key":"processedPost-7689902","value":{"id":7689902,"first":7687154,"last":7690061,"when":1196272864,"utime":"11/28/07 08:01 PM","content":"My rye tek. I haven't posted this here in awhile.<br /><br />Measure out your organic rye berries from a health food store, 1 cup for each quart jar you intend to make. Place them in a large pot. Rinse the heck out of them. Fill the pot with hot tap water, shake and swirl it around and pour it out. Do this three or four times until the water you pour out is clear. You'll be able to see when you have nice clean water to pour off instead of water filled with chaff and dirt. You want to now cover the rye berries with three times as much water as you have rye. Use half coffee(or less) and half plain water. In other words, if you have two inches of rye in the bottom of your pan, you should have six inches of water/coffee above that, for a total of 8 inches. Add one tablespoon of gypsum to the water and stir well. Leave this to sit for 12 to 24 hours. <br /><br />After the soak, add water to nearly fill the kettle up, but leave room at the top for it to boil. Stir well and set the pot on the stove. Bring to a boil. Boil for ten minutes, then, WHILE BOILING, drain the contents through a very large colander. (spaghetti strainer) If you're making a large batch, you may need more than one colander. Tip the colander side to side to get the rye to drain as much of the water as you can. Then, shake the colander in order to 'toss' the grain. This will cause a lot of steam to rise from your rye. Do this a time or two, then let it sit for five minutes, then repeat. When all the moisture that will drip or evaporate from your rye has already done so, load your jars. The rye should look and feel dry to the touch when you load the jars. All the moisture you need is inside the grain. Fill jars no more than 2/3 full if they are to receive grain to grain transfers, or no more than 3/4 full if they are to be inoculated by spore syringe. Use a lid with a synthetic filter disk, polyfill, tyvek or similar. Cover with foil and PC the jars for at least 90 minutes at 15lbs.  When the jars are cool, they're ready to inoculate.","title":"Re: is full colonization before spawning absolutely necessary with grains?"}}